Rel 328 Final
=============

Overview
--------

> 100 total questions. 82 from 2nd half of class. 18 directly from mid-term. 45 True/false. 14 matching (with facsimiles). The rest are multiple choice. Study Quizzes 7-12.

Quizzes
-------

- The Pearl of Great Price was first published in: **England, because of paper**
- One of the items that was contained in the first edition of the PoGP, but later removed, was **"Oh Say, What is Truth"**
- According to the article on Ur, Ur was most likely located: **In northwestern Syria**
- According to Abraham 1, the first Pharaoh of the land of Egypt was a wicked man and could therefore not hold the priesthood. **False**
- The Lord told Abraham to tell the Egyptians that Sarai was his sister. **True**

Study Guide
-----------

> Be able to show that you understand, in multiple choice, true/false, or matching format, the concepts discussed in the following slides and scriptures

### Joseph Smith quotes on rainbows from the end of the Moses 8 powerpoint

- When there's not a bow in the sky woe to that generation for behold the end cometh quickly

### Book of Abraham power point – slides 4-10, 13, 25, 27, 42

Important:

- What year did Joseph smith start

---

- Antonio Lebolo
  - Discovered 11 mummies in Egypt - Egypt was behind the modern world in industrial/technological
  - Left Egypt in 1822 and returned to Italy, died in 1830
  - Before death commissioned shipping company to bring the mummies to America
- Chandler
  - Was given the job of selling the mummies and their writings
  - Later sued for fraud
- Joseph Smith wanted to buy just papyri but Chandler only would sell all or nothing, paid $2,400 ($35,000-$40,00 today), two members plus a collection of people each donated $800 to secure the deal
- Papyri were writings of Joesph and Abraham
- Joseph began by trying to figure out the alphabet, perhaps "all that they could" before the Lord revealed more
- Much of it appears to be the work of WW Phelps
- Engraver Reuben Hedlock did the facsimiles, inserted things that were broken off
- What must the scrolls look like?
  - "In perfect preservation"
  - Must contain a small part of "red ink, or paint"
  - Must have "a little Hebrew"
- There are Egyptian Papyri that fit the description (not part of JS collection)
- Non-canonical Abrahamic Texts have been found
  - Testament of Abraham
  - Apocalypse of Abraham
  - All these texts were found long after Joseph Smith's translation of the Book of Abraham and could not have been used by him as sources of what he wrote

### Life of Abraham power point – slides 4-5, 10, 14-17, 19-20

Important:

- T/F Heavenly Father Changed his mind about the sacrifice of Isaac
- Ham stole a garment signifying Noah's sacred authority
- Abrahamic covenant: posterity, property, priesthood, prosperity
- Majority of church are literal descendants of Israel
- Know where UR is 

### Abraham 3 power point – slides 6, 17

Important:

- The transition phase from planets to spiritual beings: **As, also**

### Facsimiles power point – slides 5-8, 10, 29, 34-42, 45, 47, 49

Important:

- Aggregation, liminal, separation, know which one is which
- Hypocleaphus, know that there are things that will be revealed in the temple


### Joseph Smith-Matthew power point – slides 2-3, 10 (closely), 15-17, 21-22, 27, 29, 34-35, 44-46

Important:

- Know that in KJV disciples only ask about the second coming and in the JST, they ask about the destruction of the temple as well
- What is going to happen in the second coming, all of the above
- How did the people know to leave Jerusalem **because an Oracle told them to depart to Pella**
- Series of Comings
  - Adam-ondi-Ahman
  - Adam & all prophets will come
  - Keys turned over to Christ
  - Coming at the Mt. of Olives
  - Coming in Glory
  - Come suddenly to his temple
- Will anyone on Earth know when the second coming will happen?
- On fig trees fruit grows, and then the leaves grow
- Which of these is the sign of the son of man?

### First Vision power point – slides 4-5, 8, 14, 25-26

Important:

- Joseph Smith was born in Palmyra **False**
- How did Joseph Smith know that Satan was there: 
- Date of 1st vision: Sept. 21-22, 1823
- Atonement day? Holiday?

### JS-H 27-75 power point – slides 2, 5, 8-15, 22, 24, 32-33, 49-50, 56, 59, 63-64, 70

Important:

- Methodist preacher's name is George Lane
- Tumbaga name of mix of copper and tin, William Smith
- Charles Anthon's credibility: can recognize ancient char but cannot verify translation
- According to Martin Harris Joseph uses the seer stone more than the U&M
- Know which verse Joseph smith read before praying about baptism
- Oliver was baptized before Joseph
- How many people have seen the plates:

### Articles of Faith power point – slides 6-9, 23-24, 39-40

Important:

- Translation is not the main issue, the issue is many people took things out or changed stuff around, many important points were lost before compiled
8th article says canon is not closed, scriptures aren’t everything, but BoM and Bible are the word of God
- We are pre-millennialists, we believed Christ would return to the earth at the beginning of the Millennium to usher in peace and reign for 1000 years
- Earh is in what state: 

### JS-H (in scriptures) 1:3, 5, 7-8, 15-17, 28, 71

### Be familiar with the doctrines taught in the Articles of Faith (but no need to know their numbers)
